okay so we're going to continue with
some more system descriptions for
to answer the next is that I want to
discuss briefly is the system divided by
the language computer corporation
harbour Jamal Devon and others around
2002 2003 so that's one sister that's
very different from the others
because it involves some deep semantic
analysis of sentences it converts them
into logical forms so here's an example
from the paper and sentence like heavy
selling of Standard & Poor's 500 stock
index futures in Chicago relentlessly
beat stocks downward so this is good
present as a logical form using
different elements and attributes for
example heavy is an adjective that
relates to x1 selling is also related to
x1 off is a preposition that connects x1
+ x6 + and so on
and then the the system uses different
semantic axioms for inference so for
example it uses lexical chains from a
word net so for example if the word game
is related to recreation and recreation
is related to sport it's able to use
this lexical chain information to find
answers even if they don't contains any
of the words in the original question
one more sister from the University of
Michigan is called chasm from 2001 it's
also based on a noisy channel model and
it is that you want to convert the
natural language question into a query
so this is different from the system by
mark when is she happy where the mapping
was between a question and a sentence so
for example if the question is what
country is the biggest producer of
tungsten you want to convert it to
something like this biggest or largest
where because the largest are synonyms
of each other keep the content words I
just produce and tungsten and drop the
content words so Kasim involves a number
of channel noise channel operators for
example deletions deleting prepositions
and stop words replacing for example
replacing a noun phrase with this
Junction that includes multiple wordnet
synonyms and replace so the third system
in this segment is by a gravid channel
and homey from is I 2002 it is
based on automatically learning surface
patterns about sentences that are likely
to contain answers to a given question
it starts with the seat and then it
queries the web and it finds patterns
that contain both the question and the
answer turn so for example if the
question is who wrote Hamlet and it does
that the correct answer is Shakespeare
it will search for documents that
contain both the word Hamlet and the
word Shakespeare and then try to
identify patterns that contain both of
those expressions and look for words
that connect them together here's one
more example Mozart was born in 1756 the
kind of pattern that the system is going
to recognize is that was born on is an
example that links together a name of a
person and his or her birth date now
this takes me to a much more recent
system and the water system by Dave
Ferrucci and all from IBM that's the
system that participated in jeopardy
it's by any stretch of the imagination
the largest kinases them out there it
has been published about extensively it
has been covered in the press probably
more than any other system it won't
Jeopardy in 2011 and some of the
interesting features of the system are
its architecture first so the
architecture is based on a technique
called deep QA that's a technology that
enables computers to precise the answer
natural language questions using
different types of knowledge sources
both structured data but also in
inference engines and knowledge
representations it has a very powerful
hardware implementation it involves ten
racks of IBM servers running Linux 16
terabytes of RAM just Ram more almost
3000 cores and its operating at
leg-breaking speed of 80 teraflops and
most of it is written in Java but also a
little bit of it is in C pass pass and
Prolog all the components are integrated
using IBM's unstructured data
you email system so an overview of the
Ferruccio system is in AI magazine from
fall 2010 and there's an article about
it in PC magazine that includes a lot of
information about its background and
performance so what kind of knowledge
sources does Watson use it uses 200
million pages of structured and
unstructured content for total 4
terabytes of disk storage so this
includes things like Wikipedia other
encyclopedias dictionaries news articles
and so on it also includes things like
wordnet and other knowledge
representation sources one interesting
aspect of the Watson system is not so
much related to natural language
processing but it's certainly worth
mentioning here that is that it has a
betting strategy so it did well at
jeopardy works is that you not only have
to get the right answer but you also
have to buzz in before everybody else
now if you buzz in you're supposed to
answer right away if you get selected to
answer and if you get the answer wrong
that means that you can actually lose
points so if you're in a certain of the
answer your best strategy is to bet as
quickly as to buzz in as quickly as
possible if you're not so sure it may be
better to wait a little bit and maybe
let somebody else answer and possibly
get it wrong and in that case you get
some additional information and you can
try to be the second one to guess and
get it right so the way that the betting
strategy works is that you have some
sort of confidence associated with every
answer that you're getting and if you
are at least 50% certain you tried to
buzz in if you're not then you wait so
how do well did you do it I was supposed
to ask about 75 questions it got 66 of
them correct and nine of them home most
famous example incorrect answer was in
the category of US cities one of the
questions was about which city has two
airports named after World War two one
named after a battle and one named after
a person and Watson thought about it and
Buzz first and gave their answer Toronto
which was incorrect I guess it masked it
the fact that the category was us cities
the correct answer in this case was
Chicago with Midway and O'Hare as their
airports however even though it had no
and incorrect answers it still managed
to win the game by a huge margin the two
human performance again both of which
were winners in many previous contests
Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter walked away
with really small winnings compared to
what so and again
Watson is so well covered in the press
I'm not going to spend more time on it
but I have included here several
interesting pointers for future efforts
okay so some question types that Watson
uses there's actually a really large
taxonomy of those that 2,500 of them
weigh more than any of the other systems
but it turns out that according to the
law of diminishing returns about 200 of
those question types are really common
and the rest appear just once or twice
in the entire history of Jeopardy games
for 50 years or so by the way when I
talk about this archive it is actually
available on the internet you can go
there and check every single Jeopardy
question that was asked over the last 50
years including the ones that Watson had
to answer so let's switch to slightly
different question what are some of the
challenges in question answering
what would need to be solved in order to
make question answering even more
successful so one obvious problem is
word sense disambiguation so there are
many words in English or in other
languages that have multiple senses and
we want to be able to use
state-of-the-art word sense
disambiguation to understand them next
one is poor reference resolution very
often the answer to a question may be in
a sentence that doesn't contain the
original named entity is that it maybe
the second sentence in a paragraph and
it can be introduced by means of poor
noun or name
the entity anaphoric named entity in
which case we cannot really identify
this answer easily
so obviously advances in core efference
will go a long way towards making kanae
systems better a third component is
semantic role labeling this is a topic
that we're going to discuss in one of
the future segments semantic role
labeling has to deal with identifying
the main predicates in sentences and
their attributes for example if the
action is about buying something then
the semantic roles associated with
buying our the person doing the buying
the object being bought the price the
location and so on so all of those
answers are likely to improve question
answering one other important topic
about question answering is temporal
questions so how to deal with answers
that change over time so for example who
is the President of the United States
correctly the answer is Barack Obama a
few years ago it was George W Bush a few
years from now it will be somebody else
so we have to be able to understand
correctly the time when the question was
asked in the time that the answer was
given in the document and ship with his
specific concern is to use the
categories correctly just as I mentioned
Watson made a mistake on a category
about US cities by giving a Canadian
city it is obvious that it didn't
realize that the answers were all
supposed to be US cities okay so now
we're going to switch to a slightly
different topic and we're here by
concluding question answer